# Checklist for configuring Message Manager to run with FMS

The following notes describe what needs to be set up in order to run a version
of FixMyStreet that uses the Message Manager. At the time of writing, this
specifically means the FixMyBarangay project. Hopefully the information will
be useful for future integrations.

## Deploy the MM on a webserver

Installing Message Manager is described in the `installation.md` document.
You'll need to put it on a webserver (there's a very strong case for it
running over https), and you'll need it to connect to a database (we use
postgres).

The Message Manager installation includes a couple of SQL files for populating
the database with initial data (see the files in the `db` directory). Some of
the steps below assume you've done this. Note that initially this means your
Message Manager is accessible with default passwords, so you should follow the
instructions in the installation documentation about changing the passwords.

## If running MM over https, set env(HTTP)

CakePHP rewrites the login URL and it likes to default to `http:` when it does
so.

One way to prevent this is to make sure the environment variable `HTTPS` is
set to some true value, because Cake uses this to determine the protocol. See
`app/Congif/httpd.conf-example` for an example of setting this in your Apache
configuration file.

## Check for dependencies: nusoap

In addition to the webserver, PHP, and database, you may also need `nusoap`
(Web Services Toolkit for PHP), which you can get from
http://sourceforge.net/projects/nusoap/

The connection to the Netcast gateway (that's the one that the FixMyBarangay
project uses) needs `nusoap` to make its calls. If your system doesn't already
have it on the path, you can drop a local copy into the `message-manager/lib`
directory. Note for Debian users: there's a `libnusoap-php` package.

## Deploy FMS on a webserver and make sure it's got MM stuff in it

Deploy a FixMyStreet site -- this is described in detail at
code.fixmystreet.com

The key thing for the initial deployment is to make sure you've configured it
to use a cobrand which uses the Message Manager. There are lots of other
things, of course, but they are not specific to Message Manager.

Currently the `fixmybarangay` cobrand is the only one that uses Message
Manager.

To set the cobrand, add something like this to `conf/general`

ALLOWED_COBRANDS:
  - fixmybarangay: subdomain-name
  - fixmybarangay

Specifically, fixmybarangay uses Message Manager in the "report a problem"
section; this is probably what you'd expect since the messages are used to
create new reports. The cobrand includes the Message Manager like this:

   * the templates (around report creation) explicitly include the HTML and
     the JavaScript for Message Manager

   * the cobrand contains the external resources such as CSS, images (e.g.,
     for the message-manager spinner), and js files that the template and
     javascript in the templates uses

You can see this at work by looking at the `message_manager_*` files amongst
the cobrand's web assets in `web/cobrands/fixmybarangay`, but also
see`templates/web/fixmybarangay/report/_message_manager.html` for this being
applied.

## Add the FMS site to MM config

Add values for the following to the config: we generally recommend putting
values in `app/Config/general.yml`. because that keeps your config settings
out of the source code repo.

    FMS_SITE_URL:

add the URL of the client (no trailing slash)

    FMS_REPORT_PATH: '/report/%s'
 
this is the path to specific reports -- %s is the placeholder for the report's
ID

    CORS_ALLOWED:

Provide the one and only URL that is acceptable for making the AJAX connection
with this message manager. Specifically, this is the URL from which requests
from the Message Manager *within* the FMS page will be accepted. You must be
precise, and if you're running your FMS on https be sure to specify the
protocol correctly too. Currently only a single URL is supported here: you
cannot put a list of URLs in here (see 
[issue #106](https://github.com/mysociety/message-manager/issues/106))

## Note about message_manager_client.js

At the time of writing, the fixmybarangay cobrand within FixMyStreet contains
the file `web/cobrands/fixmybarangay/message_manager_client.js` that is
*identical* to the file in this Message Manager repo,
`app/webroot/js/message_manager_client.js`. Although it doesn't have to be,
this is a convenience which has meant that the dummy client is a good place to
test Message Manager without the potential complication of CORS. So, if you're
tempted to change `message_manager_client.js` at all either in your own
project, or in Message Manager, consider duplicating those changes in the
other repo, or else keeping the new code outside of this "universal" file.
